First, why do we need the clustering algorithm?
For the automotive sensors,
there is a need to track multiple targets simultaneously.
Tracking an object is computationally expensive.
So it is important to make sure that only valid targets are being
tracked and no tracks get assigned to individual detections.
With the advancements in radar technology and increasing sensing resolutions,
our radar can generate detections from pointitude of scattering points on the target.
For successful tracking, there is a need to
cluster all the detections from a single target,
and that is why we need a clustering algorithm.
Here, we will discuss the basic clustering algorithm based on the Euclidean distance.
The algorithm here enables the grouping of the detection points
based on their proximity measure by the Euclidean distance between them.
All the detection points that are within the size of the target are
considered clusters and are merged into the single centroid.
This illustration shows the importance of clustering in tracking scenario.
In the image, the blue car is a legal vehicle,
it's a vehicle with the sensor and the detections are
generated from the orange and yellow vehicles.
Using clustering algorithm, all the detections
associated with the single target are merged at one point.
This helps in detection and keeping track of targets.